day today, a day that’s brought a
mixture of sunny spells and some
fairty heavy
fairly heavy showers. The showers
fairty heavy showers. The showers
rotating
fairly heavy showers. The showers
rotating around an area of low
pressure that’s moving across
Scotland at the moment, but that’s
not the last of the lows. Out in the
Atlantic two more swells of cloud,
one coming in on Friday, one in time
for the weekend. We’ll see further
unsettled weather. Tonight we are
going to continue to see showers,
particularty
particularly across northern areas.
particularty across northern areas.
A bit of
particularly across northern areas.
A bit of snow in the hills of
northern Scotland. Quite breezy for
most but we could see a nip of frost
across northern parts to allow a few
icy stretches to develop. Tomorrow
we will have cold winds coming down
the North Sea bringing plenty of
showers from the word go, but for
many of us that winds will be
lighter and there will be more
sunshine to go round. However, there
will be rain approaching Wales and
south—west England later in the day
south-west England later in the day
and
south—west England later in the day
and there will be a zone where we
get the winds coming across Wales,
get the winds coming across Walas,
bashing
get the winds coming across Wales,
bashing together with winds from the
North Sea. Not that the winds are
strong but they’ll bring this line
strong but therll bring this line
of
strong but they’ll bring this line
of moisture which will generate some
showers, stretching more or less
showers, stretching more or lass
from
showers, stretching more or less
from Merseyside, across the Midlands
and into the Greater London area.
Some of the show is quite slow
moving and it could turn quite
cloudy for a time. Rain across
western areas overnight and for the
weekend there’s going to be quite
windy, rainy at times probably best
sums up the forecast, but the rain
could be quite heavy again
Tonight, we’re in West Bromwich.
Welcome to Question Time.
On tonight’s panel, Steve Barclay,
Chief Secretary to the Treasury
and former Brexit Secretary under
Theresa May and Borisjohnson.
Labour’s Shadow Policing Minister,
former shop steward and a special
constable with the Met,
Louise Haigh.
Pete Wishart, the SNP’s
Shadow Leader of the House and MP
for nearly 20 years and,
before that, keyboard player
with Celtic rock bands
Big Country and Runrig.
John Ashton, former
Regional Director of Public Health
in the north—west of England,
he was also Professor of Public
Health at Southampton University
and the London School of Hygiene
and Tropical Medicine.
And managing director
of the high street supermarket
chain Iceland Foods,
Richard Walker.
APPLAUSE.
Welcome to our panel,
to the audience here and,
of course, you are at home.
Do join in the conversation,
you know how to do it now,
on social media, @BBCQuestionTime.
Right, it’s been quite a day,
quite an afternoon,
lots of news coming out.
Let’s start, our first question,
with Matthew Grocott.
Every European country seems to be
taking pro—active action in regards
to the coronavirus pandemic.
Is our government doing enough?
Steve, I’m going to start with you,
since you are the Cabinet
Minister on the panel.
BorisJohnson says this
is the worst public health
crisis for a generation.
Many families will lose loved
ones before their time.
Is the government doing enough?
Sure, well, it’s a moment
of concern, I recognise,
for many people and we will be
guided by the experts,
by the science and by the facts.
And that is very much in forming
the approach we are taking.
We are being open within
government with that science,
so the Chief Medical Officer
for England, Professor Witty,
for England, Professor Whitty,
who is leading our response,
is in close contact with his
counterparts across
the United Kingdom.
Across the political parties,
we are working constructively
together, meeting through the COBRA
system to coordinate our response
and it’s right that our response
is calibrated to the needs
of the United Kingdom.
So it is the case, other countries
sometimes do things differently.
For example, Italy was testing
passengers on flights to China,
where there were questions
as to whether the UK
should be doing the same.
Can I ask you about Ireland tonight?
We have this unusual situation now
where Leo Varadkar says their advice
is that they should restrict mass
gatherings of more than 100
people if it’s indoors,
500 people if it’s outdoors,
so you’re going to have a situation
where, on one island,
you’ve got one government
following their advice,
which is very different and,
just over the border,
people cross that border
all the time, in Northern Ireland.
Yes and I think there is a specific
issue in terms of Northern Ireland,
also because of
the Common Travel Area.
So why is their advice
different to our advice?
Well, in terms of mass gatherings
and sporting events,
I think if you looked at the footage
of, for example, Paris St—Germain
last night, you saw football fans
actually congregating outside
the stadium which had been
closed to supporters.
Often, if you close sporting events,
people then will watch them
in the pub and so the science
doesn’t say that, actually,
the risk is greater
if people go to the stadium
but it is something...
But Ireland knows all that
as well, so why are they...
I’m just using them as an example,
lots of countries have taken
the decision to introduce social
distancing and close
down public gatherings.
I’m not saying the government
is wrong, I don’t know,
but I’m just wondering why other
governments are saying their advice
is telling them differently.
And I think it’s a fair point,
and I think the key to the advice
that we have government is it’s
about the timing of measures
and what is best suitable
to the country concerned,
and so the approach,
the advice we have, is it’s
about what measures we take but also
at what time we deploy that.
50 things like sporting events,
working under review,
but the advice in terms
of the circumstances we face,
the models that have been done,
is that the time of the measures
we take, that that isn’t
the appropriate action
for the United Kingdom and,
above all, this is driven,
as I say, by the scientific
advice and the models
that is informing government policy.
And, indeed, that is
an approach being taken
across the United Kingdom.
Louise?
Well, let me say that we have been
completely supportive
of the Government’s approach,
which is putting the
Chief Medical Officer
and the Chief Scientific Officer out
there and let it be
medically and evidence led,
that is absolutely right.
It is of note that we are seemingly
out of step with our closest
European neighbours and,
therefore, I think the onus
is on the government to explain why
more aggressive measures for social
distancing or closures of large
events are not being,
are not taking place.
But I think the overriding objective
must be to allow anybody
who needs to self—isolate,
to ensure that they do that
and that they can afford to do that
and that is a particular challenge
in the UK because we have the second
lowest level of statutory
sick pay in Europe.
Only Malta, across the whole
of Europe, has a lower rate
than we do, so for workers
on minimum wage, we are asking them
to make a choice between hardship
and their contribution to public
health, sacrificing as much as £200
a week in order to stay—at—home.
For millions of workers,
they don’t make the minimum income
threshold in order to qualify
for statutory sick pay
and for millions more on zero—hours
contracts or who are self—employed,
they don’t qualify either.
I don’t understand why this wasn’t
addressed in the Budget yesterday,
because this has to be the most
pressing concern, so we will support
the government, we are begging
the government to take action
on this, to make sure
that it is available from day one
for all workers and brought in line
with average pay to allow more
workers who need to self—isolate.
The public health crisis
is about to expose really big
shortcomings in our social safety
net and I worry that,
if the government doesn’t
take this action now,
both they and we will come
to regret it for some time.
There are a number of issues
when it comes to how
the government is tackling
the coronavirus pandemic.
That’s certainly one of them,
I think we’re going to come
back to that later,
if you will forgive me.
Just for now, John, I want to come
to on Matthew’s question.
Every European country seems to be
taking proactive action and, also,
other countries around the world.
Is our Government doing enough?
I don’t know where
to start with you.
I mean, I’m embarrassed
by the situation in this country.
You know, there is talk of four
stages and we are now moving
on from the containment thing.
We’ve lost the plot here.
You know, we haven’t taken
the action that we should have taken
four orfive weeks ago.
So what do you think
we should have done?
BorisJohnson should have convened
COBRA at the outset,
when it became clear
what was cooking up.
The countries that took
firm action at the time,
if you look what happened
in Hong Kong and Singapore,
which had a lot of cases initially
but which took firm action
and they got the thing
under control.
We’ve lost control here.
Last night, I didn’t go to Anfield
last night because, you know,
I had second thoughts about it.
3,000 supporters came to Anfield
last night from Madrid,
where they are playing football
behind closed doors.
The virus is around in Madrid.
That virus has been shared around
Merseyside last night,
in the bars and clubs of Merseyside.
The virus is, no
doubt, now among us.
For reasons which are totally
obscure to me, we’ve taken it
as policy not to track the people
who have come back from Italy,
not to test the people who have
come back from Italy,
so the virus will now be amongst us
and the Government’s approach
has been paternalistic,
it’s been old—fashioned,
it’s been top—down and it’s not done
what needs to happen now,
and we’ve lost four or five weeks,
which, if we get the epidemic that
looks like happening,
then it’s going to be
a community issue to be dealt
with by the community
and the community needed to be put
in the driving seat and supported,
because there is no way
in which very sick people
are all going to be able to be
admitted to hospital.
They will have to be nursed at home.
The public will have
to organise itself to do that.
What is beginning to happen
in West Yorkshire and in
Greater Manchester is that groups
are forming up to do self
care, to help each other
to be able to do this.
The Government should have been
facilitating this from the outset
and they haven’t done it.
We’ve had a very narrow,
technocratic approach,
which has not got its head
round the social dimensions of this.
We have learned nothing from Ebola.
With Ebola in 2014, we lost three
or four months because we took
a narrow science—based approach
to this and didn’t understand
the community aspects that related
to the burial practices of folk
in Sierra Leone, where they really
needed to engage with the women’s
committees because they needed
to change the burial practices.
We’ve got to achieve cultural change
here and that cultural change
can’t be done to people,
it’s got to be done with people.
You know, the closure of grounds,
the closure of schools,
will need to happen,
it should be done on an
informed basis depending
on where the cases are.
The Government’s failed
to divulge the information
that the public needs,
to know whether their area is one
where they need to start
taking action or not.
We’ve been kept in the dark.
50% of the population
now goes to university
and they are being treated
like peasants and it’s time we had
a change of approach.
Steve, obviously, Iwill come
back to you on this
but there are a lot of hands.
I want to get around the audience.
Yes, the man there
in the pink T—shirt.
I’ve got a few things
I want to bring up here.
The first one is I’m very worried,
my wife’s got a heart problem
and it’s terrifying to think
that my kids could bring
the coronavirus home.
The other thing is,
the professor touched on,
people coming from Europe
into the country.
My daughter’s school had a group
of children go to Italy only a few
weeks back and they spent half a day
or a day in school, touched things,
coughed, they have been in school,
the teachers and the children
and they refused to clean
the school at the start.
I didn’t want to send my daughter
to school because she comes back,
she catches the virus,
she passes it on to the siblings,
siblings go back to another school,
pass it around and it’s very scary
and worrying for me.
So do you want the school to be
closed, is that what you are saying?
Yeah. I’m worried.
If my wife, who’s got a heart
problem, if anything happens,
is BorisJohnson willing...
He said on the radio today
that the Health Minister...
Who was it?
Nadine Dorries, who’s
been diagnosed...
They said they don’t
want to stop the virus,
they want the virus to carry on,
so they get the whole...
Oh, I see, Chris Whitty
and Patrick Vallance, the...
I can’t remember who,
I heard on the radio.
..scientific medical experts.
And, right, 0K, BorisJohnson said
that we will lose more people.
I’m not ready to lose my
wife because of that.
So, you know...
CHEERING AND APPLAUSE.
Yes, the man in the cotton
shirt, yes, you, sir.
I agree with the professor.
For example, people are coming
in and going out, and nobody
is tested at the borders.
Even in my country, Ghana,
where we haven’t got anybody
yet, people are tested
when they are coming in, people
are tested when they are going out.
You allow everybody in.
And then you tell them,
isolate yourself.
Why can’t you stop
them at the borders?
I think the Government
isn’t doing enough.
OK, the woman in the sari,
with the glasses.
The children are less vulnerable
in school so what is the point
of closing the schools?
Particularly for doctors and nurses.
They need to be in the hospitals.
If their children are not
going to school, they might
ask their elderly parents to look
after them, and they
are in the vulnerable
state, so it’s like...
It is a little bit
of a cycle, really.
We need to think hard before we say,
like the Irish Prime Minister,
close all schools, because we need
our doctors and nurses to be helping
the people who obviously
are going to be needing
a lot of help.
0K, let me get one more point.
Since I arrived here this evening,
I have received a phone call
from my father’s care home,
which is local to hear,
to say they’ve now closed
to the home to visitors,
in light of the announcements today.
I am really concerned
about what will happen
to care home residents,
nursing home residents,
if the staff are. ..
..go sick and self—isolate.
I can’t go in and care
for my dad because I’ve now
been told I can’t visit.
You can’t go and see him at all?
No.
Pete, you’ve taken
a different view in Scotland.
50, Nicole Sturgeon,
the First Minister, came out this
evening and said that,
from Monday, gatherings over 500
people are going to be banned.
So, why are you doing that
and the rest of the UK is not?
There is a very good
reason for that.
First of all, I want to say we very
much agree with what the government
is doing in its approach
to the problems around coronavirus.
It is a four nation strategy that
we’ve totally bought into,
and I think the actions
of the government have been
appropriate and they’ve been
disciplined and measured.
And I agree with so many of the
points that have been made there.
There’s so much conflicting advice
about this, so many countries
are doing different things,
and they’re doing things
to meet their own population
and cultural requirements.
I think what we’re doing
here in the UK is the right way.
There’s even a dispute among some
of the academic staff,
there is another professor
I could quote, Keith Hall,
who says closing schools is a bad
idea because what that does is put
risk to older generations.
If we do that, it’ll be
an issue to do with people
getting to the workers
and looking after children.
So we’ve got to make sure we follow
the best possible medical
and scientific advice.
I am on the House of
Commons Commission so I get access
to some of this information,
and they’re saying that
what we’re doing just now
is the correct and response,
and if we make big population
interventions, we’ve got to do it
at the right time to make sure it
has the best and most
positive outcome.
We’ve come to a point, Fiona,
about the groups of 500,
we are doing that not because of any
scientific or medical advice.
It’s the same across the UK.
They are saying there
is no need to do this.
But we are doing this to ensure that
staff who might have to facilitate
events of more than 500 people
are available on the front line
to tackle the virus.
I think that is a measured response
that should be taken.
From Monday in Scotland,
no events over 500 people...
So, why do you feel you need
to do that in Scotland?
Is it you have a particular issue
in Scotland with front line staff
compared to the rest of the UK?
Not at all.
So why are you doing this?
We are doing this because we think
everybody who is available should
be on the front line,
ensuring people are assisted,
but why have some events like that
where it will take people away...
Should England be doing that, then?
That is entirely up to England.
This is chicken and egg.
At the height of this epidemic,
if it unfolds as it looks as though
it may, somewhere around 12—25%
of employees will be sick throughout
the whole community.
We will have to cover that.
What I would like to have seen
is the Government encouraging,
as we did when I was working
in Cumbria when we had the swine
flu, encouraging families
and communities and workplaces
to have their own plan to be able
to keep the show on the road.
What they’ve done in Hong Kong,
who had a lot of cases initially,
is that they’ve moved over to home
working for all public servants,
unless they really have
to be in the office.
And ﬂexi—working and encourage
the private sector to do that.
The education of the children
is carrying on online
in China and in Hong Kong.
We live in the internet age.
Where is the imagination?
APPLAUSE.
This is the country that’s decided
that through Brexit it can
deal with the world.
And we can’t get our heads
around using social media,
the internet, and so on,
to keep things going,
when we are faced with this crisis.
We are, you know, living in the 19th
century when we need to be
in the 21st century.
Richard.
APPLAUSE.
I totally understand everyone’s
concern at the moment
and in the same way that,
you know, it’s incumbent on me
to say people shouldn’t be
panicking, they certainly shouldn’t
be panic buying,
there is enough food...
There isn’t enough hand
sanitiser, though, is there?
Where is all that?
I’ve tried all week
and I can’t get it anywhere.
There is no shortage
of production of hand sanitiser,
it’s just getting it to the shops
quickly enough because then people
buy it, the shelves empty,
and we are putting it on the shelves
the following day.
I think we all have a
responsibility to play in that,
to shop responsibly.
But, in the same vein,
in regards to communication,
I think the Government also
needs to be very clear,
from my perspective,
businesses’ perspective,
up until last week, communication
was nonexistent from government,
and I’m pleased to say that it has
got better now.
We are now having daily calls
as a business community,
as retailers, with DEFRA mac
and the Secretary of State...
Can I just ask about that
nonexistent communication
with Government because we had
a Secretary of State
for Health here last
week, who said words
to the effect
that the Government
was in talks with the supermarkets,
and there was a bit of a hoe hah
the next day, those supermarkets
saying no, it isn’t.
Was he in talks with you?
No.
We employ 25,000 people,
we are not insignificant but, no,
the dialogue has certainly sped up.
It would be good if they could
coordinate amongst the devolved
administrations as well.
Because we are also having the same
calls with Wales and Scotland,
and it would be good if they had
a senior Cabinet person reporting
direct to Boris to actually look
across the whole gamut...
Communication has been dire.
I’ve heard today of one
of the public health consultants,
I won’t say where or which one,
said she had had three
letters from her gym
about what to do about coronavirus.
She hadn’t had a single letter
from Public Health England.
She had had three
letters from the gym.
Communications from Public
Health England are dire,
and they’ve been dire
for seven years.
Let’s hear a bit more
from the audience as well.
What we’d like to see is more
sharing of the modelling,
in terms of how do they think this
thing is going to spread,
where and when, and the sequencing
of the delay phase and potential
phases after that.
That’s very important
for us so we can plan
and manage our workforce and also
for our cash flow.
Let me hear a bit more
from the audience before
I come back to you, Steve.
The man here in the purple tie.
I think it is clear
is going to be the biggest
thing in our lifetime,
make no mistake.
I came back from a cruise ship
in the Far East
three and a half weeks ago,
and the guidance back
from the people who obviously,
we went back into the country with,
through the airport, was zero.
We had no checks.
This was when?
This was 3.5 weeks ago.
We’d been in Singapore,
we had been in Thailand,
Malaysia and Vietnam.
At Heathrow Airport,
there was zero checks,
no forms to fill in,
we got to the passport control,
I thought they were going
to ask us whether...
Where we had been,
it was electronic passports.
I went to Bahrain two days
ago and I had exactly
the same experience.
John, I must let...
It’s great to have you but I have
let you talk a lot, I need to get
other people in as well.
Yes, the man with the dark
T—shirt and glasses.
I think you’re missing
one fundamental part.
We just had the budget
and a substantial part
of that covered this issue.
I think there’s a massive...
Fear in every government
about their own economy.
We’ve just entered
a huge global shock.
Every stock market across
the globe has crashed.
And we’ve not addressed the reasons
why we are hung up on the stock
markets to fund everything,
from pensions and everything.
Until we address what we are talking
about there, I think
there is a fundamental need
for the Government to think
about that as well as public health,
to balance the two together,
because if the economy crashes,
I am an independent retailer,
not the size of Richard.
But we have had the same issue.
I spent today, six hours,
placing orders all over the place
to do what would normally take one
hour, in preparation of what was
going to come out of COBRA.
But the bank have been helpful,
the insurance company are on board,
everyone is in place
but we are fortunate
we can weather it.
So we have made the most of it.
Trying to get people not to panic
buy has been a nightmare
but we’ve made the most of it!
I’m not going to lie!
So, you’re selling quite a lot
is what you’re saying!
Yes, the woman at the back
with the blonde hair.
Returning to the closure of schools,
if were talking about closing
schools and having meetings
in public places, how
long is long enough?
I think that is what is
on a lot of people’s minds.
One of the Government’s scientific
advisers was saying, in his view,
that you’d have to close
because of a 13—16 weeks
to make it effective.
I’m not saying that’s
right, that his view.
Let’s hear from the woman
next to you and I’ll
come back to you, Steve.
I was meant to fly out to India
on Saturday but last night
the Indian government suspended
all tourist visas.
Initially, it was Italy,
Spain, France and Germany.
Within half an hour it
became everywhere else.
I’ve got a friend that has just got
back from India this week
and he said the checks that
were happening at Delhi
airport were phenomenal,
that they were getting screened
left, right and centre.
But as he arrived in Heathrow,
he said nothing at all.
So, very similar to
the gentleman down the front.
My concern is why is it always
the UK that gets caught
with their pants down?
APPLAUSE
Well...
I feel slightly awkward asking,
Steve, if you’ve been caught
with your pants down,
given you’re sitting right next
to me, but what you are hearing fair
is a fair degree of concern
and a lot of questions people feel,
even Richard here, and we’ve
heard whatJohn has said,
they are not getting answered.
And I think it is understandable,
and I could hear the concern
in the gentleman’s voice,
in terms of the care of his wife,
and it’s understandable that
people have that concern.
But Pete was absolutely right
when he said there is an agreed
position on the science,
and it is the science,
it is the view of our top scientists
across all four countries
of the United Kingdom
that is driving the position
and therefore, respectfully to John,
I’m afraid he is at odds with
the leading scientists of the UK.
Other scientists in other countries
taking different views,
and Ireland isn’t particularly
culturally different from us.
They are modelling to their model
and what I’m saying is there
is an agreed science position.
You’re quite right
in terms of the point
with Scotland and the stadiums,
and that is an operational issue,
in terms of staffing,
it isn’t an issue in terms
of the science.
The key issue is the science is
uniform across the United Kingdom,
and we are sharing that in a very
open, cross—party way.
There is a specific issue in terms
of schools and, again,
these questions are not so simple,
in that if you close schools, a lot
of children are cared for these days
by their grandparents.
Grandparents are often
particularly at risk.
Many parents will work in the NHS.
We have overl million
people working in our NHS.
So there are consequences
to these decisions.
So far, 46 countries have announced
or implemented school
or university closures so far.
Yes, and this comes to the issue
of the timing of measures.
It’s magical thinking!
Magical thinking.
This is the advice.
As a minister who is not medically
trained, I came to this evening
and said I know better
than the Chief medical for so,
I know better than the Government
scientific adviser, you would quite
rightly would question...
But we have gone from Michael Gove
saying we’ve had too much of experts
to now saying we only believe
scientists from a particular bit of
the story, and we are not listening
to what the peoples concerns are.
to what the people’s concerns are.
The public are concerned.
At the end of the day it
will continue to be public...
There is a concern amongst
the public, there is
a unified position...
You’ve got politicians
believing their own rhetoric...
John, we need to let Steve answer.
We’ve got to get this through!
The politicians are believing
in their own rhetoric
and they are wrong.
APPLAUSE
Steve, just wait one minute.
John, I know you feel strongly
and we’ve got you here tonight
but you do have to let
other people answer.
This is one of the biggest
crisis facing this country
for a very long time.
We are not trying to shut you down,
I hear what you’re saying...
The politicians are believing
their own rhetoric...
John, stop!
We have to let other
people answer as well.
The point was raised about airports
and checks at airports,
a number of people have raised that.
What do you say to them?
Well, again, Ithink I mentioned
earlier the case of Italy,
which did put in some checks and it
didn’t stop the spread.
So the issue is what
advice have we had?
The advice was, as with stadiums
at the moment, that that
isn’t the best approach.
But it’s also about the timing
and the lady talked about her
elderly relative and wanting
to visit and, I think again,
in a way, that goes to the heart
of the issue because one
of the concerns we have is that
measures need to be taken
for an extended period of time,
there is a danger that people,
after a period of time,
will start to not comply with that.
Understandably, because you will be
worried about your mum,
you will want to go and see her,
you won’t have seen her...
This is cod science!
You’ve got to let him answer.
John, you have to let Steve answer,
even if you don’t agree.
No, wait, listen...
He’s getting a lot of time.
John, this is how it works.
A, if I say stop talking,
you have to and, B, we have to let
peopla answer and then I will come
back to you.
I do want to hear from your view,
don’t mistake me, but we do have
to let other people answer.
To be fair, as I say,
I’ve been party to some
of the discussions at COBRA.
I met the finance ministers
from the Scottish, Welsh Government
and Northern Ireland Executive
on Tuesday.
We are working across the UK,
because this isn’t about politics,
this is something where we need
to come together, we all
have a concern for our constituents
but I come back to this point,
it’s what the expert advice says,
it’s what the facts say and it’s
what the science says
that’s absolutely crucial.
There are lots of hands up,
I want to hear some more.
Yes, the man in the
black shirt there.
So I’ve got two disabled brothers
with cerebral palsy and I agree
with ProfessorJohn but I’m also
really concerned about the closing
of the schools and day centres
and how we, as a family,
will cope with looking after them.
You know, especiallyjust
before the holidays,
we’ve put measures in place
for the Easter holidays.
But if we do thatjust before
the Easter holidays,
we are going to struggle
as a family.
0K.
And, yes, the woman
here in the dark top.
We’ve heard lots of concerns
but one of the concerns
is the result reporting times.
It’s varying.
In Belfast, it’s between
five and 2A hours.
Within other parts of
the UK, it’s eight days.
Isn’t that a concern in itself?
You are worried about tests.
Yes, the man in the T—shirt?
Yes, you.
I think, as a young person,
it’s often put to me,
don’t worry, you’ll be fine,
because young people respond very
well to the illness,
but think the problem is I,
as a young person, can still give
the illness to someone
who is very vulnerable.
I think the message "You’ll be fine"
to my generation is worrying,
because we need to take the same
steps of caution to make sure
we don’t give it to our loved ones
who are vulnerable and could be
killed by it.
That’s a particularly good point
and so many issues around
particularly the ageism when it
comes to this issue.
What we are seeing is like somehow
some of our older people don’t
require or deserve the care,
they obviously do.
There is one phrase we are going
to get very much used to over
the next few weeks or months,
and that is "Flattening the curve".
What that means is we are going
to have to try a slow...
We know the cases are going to rise,
what but what they do
is to have a very slow rise up,
keep the peaks as low as possible
and then a sustainable drop down.
Now, Steve is absolutely right.
How to achieve that and do
that is based on the best
scientific and medical advice.
I knowJohn’s got his
views on all that.
It’s out of step with most
of the advice that we are
getting as politicians.
We don’t know the answer to this.
I’m not a clinician, I can’t make
any decisions about this,
I can’t tell you about how this
disease will work out.
But what I can do is to listen
to the experts, to the science,
and ensure that is going to be
applied and adopted,
because it is only by doing
that that we are going
to get through this.
And we are only going to get
through this if we do this together.
And I think we also have to be
honest about the challenge
that is facing us, and the lady
brought up about the care
system and herfather
that is in a care home.
The head of Care England has said
the Government does not
have a strategy on social care
and the ability of social care
to respond to it and Richard
comment about the failure
to communicate with supermarkets
is really concerning.
I know of major care providers
in this country that
have not had any contact
from the Government at all.
So, yes, we need to be supportive
of the Government’s general approach
but we also have to be honest
that there are significant
challenges that I don’t think
the Government have necessarily...
Well, we’ve got a question
on exactly that.
50, Mark Taylor, where are you?
Yes.
Are we doing all we can to support
the vulnerable groups to help them
through coronavirus?
Now, you work in the
NHS, is that right?
I do.
What is your view?
For me, personally, I have got
a father who is in his late 70s.
I’ve got a sister who’s got
a learning difficulties.
My father’s now starting
to not we nt to leave
the house unnecessarily.
He attends a social event on Monday
and he is worried about going there.
He had his family come down
from Leeds the other
day and he was worried
about going to see them, so that has
started to emerge within him.
With my sister, there
is a difficulty about understanding
what advice to follow because,
clearly, she will hear one
thing and believe that
and then hear another,
so we’ve got that as well.
But I think I’m also concerned
about the homeless as well,
because they seem to be missed out
a lot here.
I’ve got my own personal views
but there is a large quantity
of people we are missing
out in protecting.
Which is picking up
on what you were saying, really.
Absolutely.
You know, I think it is maybe,
it has stopped a little bit
but when there was first public
awareness around a virus,
there was kind of a dismissiveness
about, well, if you are young
and you don’t have any
underlying health conditions,
you will be all right.
Well, since when, as a country,
did we not care about older
people or people with
underlying health conditions?
So the people that you’ve just
described should be our absolute
priority and we should be making
sure that we keep the virus away
from them and if they do catch it,
that there are enough critical care
beds and that there is sufficient
health care available for them.
Those should be our absolute
priority in tackling the virus.
John, you were nodding and I could
see you are agreeing with that.
The one thing that occurs to me
from what you have been saying thus
far is that when it comes
to commune, someone to someone
like you, for example.
them, how is someone
like you going to be able
to go to work?
And care for the vulnerable?
This is why we need to be
encouraging neighbourhoods,
communities, families,
groups of friends,
to have their own resilience plans
about who is going to look
after the kids if parents are ill,
who is going to do the shopping
for Granddad and all the rest of it.
We haven’t had that discussion.
But the vulnerable groups, you know,
there has been very little
discussion about that.
The Government have got predictions
that if you get one serious
case in a care home,
you might finish up
with a mortality rate of up to 30%.
They haven’t told anybody that.
These are the sort of figures...
Is that true?
I’m
NW
Is that figure true?
It is planning assumptions
that they have which they are not
sharing with us and,
you know, we have got care homes
now, outrageously big care homes
that the private sector have been
providing, 120 people in this
sort of size of things
and that is a group that we need
to look at.
Homeless people, people
sleeping on the street,
are a major vulnerable group.
In Bahrain, where I’ve been working,
it didn’t take me much persuading,
they are going to release early
prisoners from the overcrowded
prison facilities.
We’ve got overcrowding
in our prisons in some really
crummy Victorian prisons.
Those places will be very
vulnerable to outbreaks.
It is notjust the prisoners,
the guards come and go.
The guards are part
of their community.
They can bring the virus
into a prison environment
and it can take off.
So, what are you saying?
What are you saying should happen?
It is under the radar
and it is not being discussed.
They have had outbreaks in prison
in China and in Iran.
They have had outbreaks
in psychiatric units.
These things are not
being discussed, or if they
are being discussed,
they are being discussed behind
closed doors and the public
needs to be involved
in these conversations.
Richard.
I think, from our perspective,
we do all we can to the customers
we serve, the 5 million customers
a week and, as I said earlier,
there is no shortage of food and,
therefore, I think customers
have a responsibility
because our supply chain is very
resilient, there are no stock
issues and, therefore...
Hang on, but there are things that
you can’t get in a supermarket
at the moment, like hand sanitiser.
That is a stock issue, isn’t it?
From our perspective, we do have
some limits on hand sanitiser,
just to keep the volume to make it
available for everyone
and that’s my point.
If you panic buy, then those
who are more vulnerable,
who can’t afford to panic buy
and stock build, which is a luxury
only for those who can afford it
and I think it’s really important
to remember that.
I do welcome the Government’s extra
funding, the 5 billion that came,
and it was heartening to hear
the Chancellor say that however
much it costs, you know,
they will fund our Health Service
to get through this but,
as Louise said, there is more
that is required on social care and,
obviously, a longer term
plan to properly fund
and invest in our NHS,
so that when this thing comes around
again, we are more resilient.
Finally, I think it’s
about community, asJohn said,
and it’s about looking out for each
other and we all have
a role to play in that.
It is notjust Government,
it is notjust retailers keeping
the shops open and selling food,
it’s about all of us,
looking out for your neighbours,
looking out for those
who are vulnerable in your society,
maybe doing some shopping for them
and working together on this.
I’ll come to you in a minute.
Steve, in terms of supporting
vulnerable groups, as Mark
mentioned, there was no mention
of social care and what is going to
be done about that this afternoon.
We will come to the Budget,
I know you’ve got here,
chief secretary, we will come
to that, but in terms of supporting
vulnerable groups when it
comes to coronavirus,
have you written the
NH5 3 blank cheque?
We have said we will fund
whatever is needed.
So is that what that means?
Just so that we are all clear.
What it is about is saying,
firstly, in the Budget,
announced a 12 billion package,
a coordinated package.
And toJohn’s central point,
John is trying to tell
you that there isn’t coordination.
Well, let me give you a concrete
example of coordination.
On Wednesday, we didn’tjust
announce the Budget,
we had a coordinated action
with our central bank,
which is independent of Government,
but announced a series of packages,
the interest rate cut,
the package of support
to support businesses in terms
of the credit cycle...
So how is that helping
the vulnerable people
that Mark talking about?
First, there is coordination,
so in terms of vulnerable people,
I spoke, before coming on this
evening, to the deputy
Chief Medical Officer.
She was telling me
about the leaders’ group
that is working with care homes,
working with local authorities,
with Public Health England
and I don’t accept the criticism
of the staff of Public Health
England, who I think are working
tirelessly in response
to this issue.
This is about communication...
If you let me finish.
There is also work going on through
the local resilience forums
is to coordinate their action.
So the reality is there is a huge
amount of work going on,
there is coordination both in terms
of support for social care
and adult social care.
We can get onto the Budget
and the package of measures
for support in social care,
supporting local authorities
but there is both economic
coordination but there is also
coordination through
Public Health England and NHS
England and coordination,
as Peter has touched on,
across the UK through the different
health systems we have,
for example in England
and Scotland, so it’s simply
not the case to say...
Why are they each doing
their own modelling?
Why is the Department of Health
doing its own modelling?
Public Health England
The NHS hospitals doing
their own modelling?
Why haven’t we got one
coordinated set of modelling?
Is that right?
Again, no, it is
factually incorrect.
We have got the scientific group,
Sage, the scientific group
that advises Government,
that comes together with the top
scientists within the United Kingdom
to advise Government.
However muchJohn wants to say
there isn’t coordination,
the fact that Pete and I,
who disagree on many issues
politically, are saying
we are working together
to coordinate I think tells
the message that people
are working together,
because this is a
common issue that...
Let’s hear from Pete.
We may have a little
difference with an issue here.
Yesterday, I was very impressed
by the numbers that were getting
rattled off the Budget
and all the public will
want to talk about that.
£5 billion has been set aside
for coronavirus and tackling this
and I think that’s fair enough
and I congratulate the Government
for giving that money.
What we don’t know is what’s
going to happen with that money,
and this is where I may
agree withJohn.
There doesn’t seem to be any
particular plan about how this
is going to be applied
across our community within the NHS.
What we are hearing from people
here tonight and we are hearing it
very sincerely, the main concern
is vulnerable groups,
people who may be more vulnerable
to this illness than others.
People who got caring
responsibilities who are obviously
very concerned about their loved
ones and I think we need to know
from Government how this
is going to be applied and how this
is going to be done and I think
people need to be reassured
that this money that has been set
aside, a generous amount of money
that has been set aside,
will get through to ensure these
groups are supported
adequately and properly.
OK, I’m going to come
to the audience, so, briefly.
The key challenge isn’t an financial
one, it’s a staffing one,
that is the key challenge we face,
particularly in terms of staff
themselves lost to the virus.
So we are discussing
with NHS England in terms
of what finance is needed,
we’ve set out a £5 billion package
in the Budget as part of a wider
£12 billion package and,
as required, we will increase that
if that is what is required.
But the issue isn’t one
of finance, the issue is much
more one of staffing.
No mention of funding
for local public health.
The issue in terms of pressure
on staffing and, again,
it comes back to the point
we touched on earlier,
in terms of the timing
of interventions because I’m also
concerned about the pressure on NHS
staff themselves and in terms of,
for example, NHS111 call staff
are under pressure and my plea
tonight is for people to use NHS
online in terms of their inquiries
because, as someone touched
on earlier, people are hearing
lots of different things,
they are, unfortunately,
hearing things at odds
with our leading scientific advice,
so NHS online is the place to go,
that is where people should
get their advice and we must
time our interventions because...
Do you believe this stuff?
No.
Actually...
The public don’t believe this.
John at the moment is a reasonably
[one voice on the panel and I’m not
forming a judgment on whetherJohn
is right or not, I wouldn’t
know, I know specialist.
know, I am no specialist.
Jeremy Hunt, obviously Secretary
of State for health for many,
many years, was saying tonight
that he is concerned and surprised
that more is not being done sooner.
Just seeing the reaction
you are getting from people here,
this is such a different feeling
to Question Time last week where,
by and large, the audience had
questions butjust sat quietly,
listened, took it on board, whereas,
tonight, I’m getting a very
different feeling from the audience.
You mentionjeremy and I phoned him
this morning, spoke to him.
He was our longest serving
Health Secretary, he’s obviously
a very informed voice,
so we are engaging with
parliamentarians, we are engaging
across the United Kingdom.
I’ll come back to the point,
it is a concerted approach
we are taking forward.
I’m going to take a few more points
from the audience before I move on.
The man in the blue sweater.
You talk about the NHS staff and how
you’re worried about them,
and the blank cheque,
the £5 billion.
Where was this before
the coronavirus?
We’ve been under pressure for years.
APPLAUSE.
Are you an NHS worker?
What do you do in the NHS?
I am an audiologist, and I mainly
work with vulnerable adults,
actually, who have medical
conditions, and they are coming
in to see me for hearing
tests and what not.
Are you feeling prepared
and that you know enough?
To be honest, not really.
We’re not even asking the right
questions of where they’ve come
from, if they’ve travelled,
or anything like that.
Not getting any support,
to be honest with you.
Like I said, I think the NHS has
been under pressure for years now,
and now this has come
all of a sudden, where is this
£5 billion coming from?
We might get onto that.
Yes, the woman here
in the black cardigan.
You’ve just said to go to NHS online
because that’s the best place to go.
As we already know, 111 has been
giving out the wrong
information to some people...
What do you mean, specifically?
I read today that 111 advisers have
been telling people that
are potential corona sufferers
the wrong advice, telling
them they don’t need
to quarantine when they do.
Prior to Corona coming
along, I got sick.
I went on NHS online,
it told me the wrong thing.
It was a good thing I had
a feeling and called 111,
and an ambulance had to be sent
for me, and I spent three
days in the hospital.
How can we trust if,
during regular times,
NHS online, that you have just
directed us to, is incorrect?
How can we trust it
during this pandemic now?
0K, we are going to move
on with the subject in a moment
but do you just quickly
want to quickly answer,
you have got an NHS worker
there who feels you’re not getting
the right advice, not being told
which questions to ask,
and the women’s 3 point there.
I think in terms of the investment,
we are putting in an
additional £6 billion.
It was our number one
priority at the manifesto,
that’s why we are committed
to 50,000 more nurses,
it’s why we are committed
to 50 million more GP appointments.
It is the centre point
of the manifesto on which we stood
and that is why we are putting
record investment into the NHS
because it is our key commitment.
In terms of in response to COVID—19,
within the package we announced
in the budget, and you say let’s get
onto the detail of the budget,
there was a £5 billion package
specifically to support our public
services, alongside
the support for individuals
and also for businesses.
0K.
We could clearly talk
about coronavirus for the entire
programme, and it is tempting,
I’ve got to be honest.
But there was another thing a lot
of you wanted to hear about,
which is the budget.
So, let’s hearfrom your specialist
subject, you’ll be glad to know,
let’s hearfrom Ben Moore.
Has the Chancellor found
the magic money tree
we were told didn’t exist?
APPLAUSE.
Louise, let’s start with you.
Well, let me firstly say how
welcome any investment
is after ten years of austerity,
and it is investment that
communities like this,
here in Sandwell, and my own at home
in Sheffield have been crying out
for for the last ten years.
It is pretty gelling to be told
by the Tories for the last ten years
that we are magicking up money
trees, that we are pursuing
a debunked economic strategy.
And to come forward with this budget
yesterday, that commits
to considerable borrowing
to invest in infrastructure...
Well, at least you have to admit
they are right, then!
Presumably?
They have to admit we were right!
That is the right way
round, isn’t it, Fiona?
We have been seeing a lot
of critique and analysis of this
budget, saying it is effectively
a Labour budget.
What the Institute for
Fiscal Studies have come
out today and said is,
despite commitment in certain public
spending priorities,
notably the NHS and the police,
austerity will still be baked
in in certain areas,
particularly local government.
Sandwell local council is still set
to receive cuts of £15 million
a year for the next several years,
and that is the real,
sharp end of austerity that
communities have been feeling
for the last few years.
We talked a little bit about social
care so far but this is one
of the biggest political challenges
of our generation.
The Prime Minister recognised
that after he was first
elected Tory leader.
He stood outside Downing Street
and promised to work
cross party to tackle it,
yet there was nothing in the budget
yesterday about funding or a plan.
Hundreds of thousands of older
and vulnerable people
are isolated in their homes
with unmet care needs.
We have an underpaid,
undervalued workforce
that is on its knees,
and in the middle of a public health
crisis, we have still got no plans
from the Government to tackle it.
This should really have been a major
priority of the Tories’ budget this
week and it was glaring
in its absence.
APPLAUSE
Pete.
Can I say to the gentleman not only
have they found the magic money tree
but they’ve stumbled
into a veritable rainforest of them.
This is about the most remarkable,
curious budget I think I’ve ever
seen in my 20 years in Parliament.
It’s like the Conservatives have
dropped this tag of fiscal
conservatism and somehow
become unreconstructed Keynesian.
They’ve discovered the value
of fiscal stimulus.
We always knew we were in for a mad
ride when we got Dominic Cummings
and his weirdos and misfits
running the Treasury.
My advice to the good people
of West Bromwich is buckle
yourself in, because you’re
going to have the ups and downs
when it comes to this budget,
and how this treasury
is going to be run.
It’s going to be
a crazy, crazy ride.
Of course, there is not so much
the elephant in the room but a herd
of woolly mammoths in the guise
of Brexit, which barely got
a mention yesterday.
The cultural, economic and social
damage that Brexit is going to do
to our country within the next year
is barely addressed, and I think
this is going to be a real issue.
We have the good ship conservatism
with her new—found insatiable
appetite for spending billions
of pounds in fiscal stimulus,
sailing the seas of uncertainty,
being buffeted by coronavirus
in the international markets.
Captained by Dominic
Cummings with his crew
of weirdos and misfits.
God help you all.
How many metaphors do
you want to get in there?
Hang on, we’ve got the woolly
mammoths, then we have the ship
and there is the other...
Oh, the rainforest!
You mentioned Brexit.
Richard, you support and have always
supported the idea of Leave.
Do you still support the idea Brexit
negotiations should continue,
given everything that is going on?
Well, yes.
I see the opportunities
Brexit can afford.
And I was delighted, at least
from a business perspective,
that we had some level of certainty,
in terms of the future direction.
But I think at the moment
there is no point chest—thumping
and having strong rhetoric
with Brussels because
no one’s listening.
And this isn’t
the time for argument.
This is a time for trying
to work with Brussels
to try to get through this virus.
So, at the moment, I would pause it.
I’m not necessarily saying delay
to the end of the year
but we have a pandemic on our hands,
we have a crisis, and we need
to get through it.
In terms of the budget,
the magic money tree?
Yeah, I am a northern—based
businessman.
We were founded in the north.
Out of our 1,000 shops,
most of them are outside
of the M25, so I am delighted
with the levelling up agenda.
But it has to come from
the marginalised towns
and villages around the UK.
So, for me, things like HS2
are a waste of money,
I think it’ll take far too much
time, it’ll cost too much,
and I think, environmentally,
hugely destructive.
I think we need to look
at business rates as well,
there was something in there
for smaller businesses but that’ll
do nothing for the majority
of the store closures up
and down the country.
It won’t help the BHS,
the Maplins, the Toys "R" Us,
all of those big employers that
are really struggling under this
old, Victorian taxation system.
So, I think there is a lot more
they can do, and making the local
high streets places where people
want to work and live.
We have a lot of empty space
on our property portfolio.
And, yet, property tax is levied
with VAT on conversion
but not new—build housing.
I don’t think young people
want to live in out—of—town commuter
belts with car bourne existence.
They want to live in these
towns and villages.
And it’s so important
because I see it everyday
in our stores around the country.
We are one of the most
geographically unequal
countries in the developed world,
and we must invest,
notjust in the northern cities
but in those
marginalised cities and towns.
Better bus routes, 3 drop
in business rates, and better
housing for young
people fit for today.
APPLAUSE.
Let’s hear from the audience,
man in the red tie.
I am an NHS governorfor mental
health services for over 12 years.
One of the key things I’ve seen,
and also I am a board member,
I’ve seen cutbacks every single year
for the past six years
from the Tory Government.
We haven’t got investment
in mental health.
What is the Government’s
agenda on improving access
to mental health services?
With realistic investment rather
than just lip service they’ve been
giving us for years?
Yes, the man there.
Yesterday, the Chancellor reeled off
quite a few names of inventors
who invented and put Great Britain
on the map.
How would the inventors would need
engineers and other trades
to put their things back
into the system.
I never heard anything
about engineers.
I am an engineer.
We are actually struggling very hard
to find any engineers,
especially with Brexit coming,
there is no engineers
in the UK at all.
What is the Government doing?
Are they going to issue bursaries
for engineers, to get them aboard,
get younger people coming in?
At the moment, there is nobody
coming into our trades.
0K, yes, the woman back
there with the glasses.
I think the magic money tree has
come from the ten years of cuts
the Tory Government
has put in place.
You’ve cut education, mental health,
all local government.
So, you’ve destroyed communities.
You’ve destroyed communities
in the West Midlands and it’s
going to take a lot more
than the current budget
to build them back up.
APPLAUSE
50, Steve...
You’ve heard what the
audience have had to say.
We’ve talked about a few other
issues there, they got lobbed in,
important nonetheless,
about mental health and engineers.
John, I will come to you, I promise.
I can see your hand up,
I’m definitely going to come to you.
What you’re hearing a lot
of people saying is, hang on,
it was all about austerity.
Theresa May kept saying
there is no magic money tree.
Suddenly there is a rainforest,
as you, Peter put it.
And it is huge borrowing!
The key is delivering
on our manifesto promises,
which is our commitment to the NHS
and public services and also
to addressing the gaps
in productivity and levelling up
around the United Kingdom.
The reason we are now able to do
that is because we inherited
a situation where the deficit
was out of control at 10%,
where Labour ministers themselves
were writing that all the money
had been spent.
And we’ve got that deficit down
from 10% to under 2%.
Which is why the Chancellor
could announce this package whilst
meeting the three fiscal rules
that we also set out at the budget.
You’re now going to send that
deficit right up again.
No, this is about meeting the fiscal
rules, levelling up the country.
If I take the five biggest city
regions outside London,
if they were at the same
productivity level as the UK
average, that would be worth
an additional £35 billion a year
so we have a gap between the south,
and London in particular,
and the opportunities in other areas
of the country.
And we recognise that talent is
equally distributed across the UK.
But opportunity is not.
So, we need to address
the issues that hold
productivity back, things
like transport,
infrastructure, skills.
That’s what we promised
to do in the manifesto
and we are delivering
on what we promise
to the British public.
So you are not worried
about the deficit any more?
You have the Office
for Budget Responsibility saying
they expect the deficit to rise
to a six—year high of 67 billion.
No, so let me tell you why.
Firstly, we have got
historic low interest rates,
which is an opportunity.
Secondly, the key thing to look out
for those who want to look
at the red book is the fact that
debt as a percentage of GDP comes
down in this Parliament and comes
down in the final year,
and the key is that we can do this
because of the difficult decisions
that were taken over
the last decade.
So, as a result of that,
we can now unlock this investment,
level up across the United Kingdom,
address the differences
in productivity...
Steve, that’s nonsense.
Your austerity measures held
growth back, held wage
growth back, grew debt.
Absolute nonsense.
John, you wanted to come in.
Well, there’s three things I’d
like to say, really.
I mean, I was brought up in the ‘505
and ‘605 to believe that we should
rejoice when a sinner repents and...
..and to rediscover One Nation
conservatism, I think we ought
to celebrate that and see if it’s
actually going to happen.
You know, that’s the discussion
we’ve just been having,
but we have to recognise,
we’ve had ten years of austerity.
Michael Marmot has recently
published his follow—up to the work
on inequalities in health
and there is a ten—year gap in life
expectancy that has opened up
because of these austerity years.
And that will take
a long time to sort out.
What I would like to say
about the Budget is there was no
mention of public health
at the local level,
or the national level, actually.
Since 2013, public health has
been largely centralised
into Public Health England.
They’ve got a vanity project
on the go to spend almost
£1 billion in Harlow New Town,
where they are going to centralise
a lot of the expertise which we’ve
had since the Second World War
in regions, regional
specialist public health.
It’s a shadow of its
former self since 2013.
The local level of public health
in the local town hall,
they’ve had 30% Budget cuts.
The staffing levels have
been slashed, they don’t
have their own nurses who can do
the contact tracing and so on.
There was no mention of public
health in the town hall
in the Budget yesterday.
The NHS side of public health
and the local authority
side of public health
are equally important.
We’ve got a weak system
and we are going to depend on it
over the next weeks and months.
It is a disgrace.
The only thing I would say
on the Brexit point that was raised,
I’m working with Bahrain
at the invitation of
the Crown Prince, who is providing
personal leadership.
They’ve got a grip on it,
which I envy in terms
of what is going on here.
They are committed to
openness with the public,
they publish all the data,
they’ve got daily press conferences
and everything,
they’ve built a camp for quarantine
in ten days for 3,000 people,
it’s as good as anything
you will find at Butlins,
and they are testing and they are
doing the thing properly.
When I was there the first time,
last month, we realised they didn’t
have enough testing equipment,
the Crown Prince signed a cheque,
we ordered the testing equipment
to raise the capacity.
Our lot were doing nothing.
Whether we’ve now got
the testing capacity
for what’s needed, who knows?
But it’s going to come
from Germany and Switzerland.
They are not going to prioritise us
any more because we are no longer
in the European Union and these
are consequences of coming out
of the EU, and I hope these things
will be realised by people
who naively thought we can go
on paddle our own canoe,
and paddle our own canoe,
this little island of ours.
Steve, we’re almost of time.
We’ve only got about 20 seconds.
John started off saying there is no
money but then went on to complain
about £1 billion being spent
on a new facility.
What I would highlight
is we are investing in particularly
in our research and development.
So, £22 billion in R&D,
4 billion more than the manifesto.
That speaks to the optimism
we have for the country,
we want to level it up
but we want to invest
in the technology of the future,
that 22 billion in R&D is a big
part of it.
Right, we could keep talking,
couldn’t we, but our hour’s up.
I’m afraid, we are out of time.
Next week, we will be
in Weston—super—Mare
and the week after that,
we will be in Shrewsbury,
so if you want to be
in the audience, call 033 0123 9988.
Or go to the Question Time
website and you can follow
the instructions there.
And if you want to keep talking
about this, have your say
on tonight’s topics, you can join
Adrian Chiles and guests
on Question Time Extra Time,
which is on Radio 5Live right now.
But, for now, itjust
remains for me to say thank
you very much to the panel,
thank you to all of you, I’m sorry
I didn’t get around more of you,
there were so many hands up and,
thank you, of course, to you at home
for watching and listening.
From West Bromwich, bye—bye.
It’s an extraordinary ask,
isn’t it, to, um...
..bear a child for someone?
This is something I want to do.
I can change your life
and you can change mine.
Using an 18—year—old fresh out of
a children’s home? Jesus, Emily!
Well, I’m doing it,
with or without you.
This lassie has keyed into you,
and you’re not thinking straight.
It’s exploitation, pure and simple.
Daniel Docherty, he’s called.
Minted! Owns half of Glasgow.
Something’s not right.
She’s got all the power,
but we’ve no choice
but to trust her.
What have you told them?
The lassie’s story doesnae add up.
Do you hear that wee voice
in your head?
Well, my one’s saying,
"We can do this."
SHE SCREAMS
ECHOES: Do this...
I don’t want a ledger. Hi!
Are we going to address
the way you looked at her?
Should we address the way
YOU looked at her?
But you’re landlords. It’s weird.
I cannot not feel what I feel.
You love her, don’t you?
I do. I do too.
Camden calling.
We’re taking over
its legendary venues
for this year’s 6 Music Festival.
Three days of exceptional live music
and DJ sets
from the beating heart of Camden.
You can catch all the action,
streaming now on BBC iPlayer.
50, Laura, we’ve had a sense
for a while about how big an issue
coronavirus is going to become
but if anyone was in any doubt
as far as the UK is concerned,
we got a huge sense today
from the Prime Minister
and the senior scientific
and medical advisors ofjust how big
a deal it is.
That’s right.
Coronaviruse is here, it’s real,
it’s going to affect many,
many thousands of people,
and we are in it for
the long haul, no question.
Actually, the experts are back
and everybody wants to be reassured
by politicians or by medical experts
but anyone who says they definitely
know what’s going to happen
to all of us is lying
because it is a new virus,
and we just can’t tell.
And this virus doesn’tjust affect
people, it affects every area
of national and international life,
it’s quite astonishing, actually.
Loads of questions to ask
and grapple with and try to answer
and we’ve got plenty of time to do
it, welcome to Newscast!
Newscast.
Newscast from the BBC.
Going to PizzaExpress in Woking
is an unusual thing for me to do.
You are a white, privileged male.
No one has got a BLEEP
clue what Brexit is.
This is not an elitist issue,
this is a quality issue.
I urge everyone to find closure,
let the healing begin.
You have stolen my dreams and my
childhood with your empty words.
You’re failing us.
It’s Adam in Brussels!
And it is Katya in Brussels as well.
Laura in Westminster.
And Chris in Westminster.
And with us we thought we’d better
have somebody who knows what they’re
talking about in the context
of the kind of health and medical
side of coronavirus,
as well as the politics...
Just generally!
Just generally, yeah!
EnterJames Gallagher,
BBC health correspondent.
Hello.
Grab a seat.
Welcome to Newscast.
Put on a pair of
oversized headphones.
That is so you can
hear Adam and Katya.
Laura Kuenssberg,
I feel so privileged.
It’s very nice to have you here.